#labels Featured
=Image Scaling=

||     Table of Contents:   ||
||<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />||

*Image scaling* is the process of resizing a digital image. Scaling is a non-trivial process that involves a trade-off between efficiency, smoothness and sharpness. As the size of a raster image is reduced or enlarged, the pixels which comprise the image become increasingly visible, making the image appear "soft" if pixels are averaged, or jagged if not. With vector image the trade-off may be in processing power for re-rendering the image, which may be noticeable as slow re-rendering with still graphics, or slower frame rate and frame skipping in computer animation.

Apart from fitting a smaller display area, image size is most commonly decreased (or subsampled or downsampled) in order to produce thumbnails. Enlarging an image (upsampling or interpolating) is generally common for making smaller imagery fit a bigger screen in fullscreen mode, for example. In “zooming” a bitmap image, it is not possible to discover any more information in the image than already exists, and image quality inevitably suffers. However, there are several methods of increasing the number of pixels that an image contains, which evens out the appearance of the original pixels.

==Pixel Art Scaling Algorithm==

*Pixel art scaling algorithm* is one kind of image scaling algorithm that was designed specially for upscaling low res image multiple times. Since a typical application of this technology is improving the appearance of fourth-generation and earlier video games on arcade and console emulators, many are designed to run in real time for sufficiently small input images at 60 frames per second. Many work only on specific scale factors: 2× is the most common, with 3× and 4× also present.

===EPX/Scale2×/AdvMAME2×===

*Eric's Pixel Expansion (EPX)* is an algorithm developed by Eric Johnston at Lucas Arts around 1992, when porting the SCUMM engine games from the IBM PC (which ran at 320×200×256 colors) to the early color Macintosh computers, which ran at more or less double that resolution. The algorithm works as follows:

{{{
def fib(n):
  A    --\ 1 2
C P B  --/ 3 4
  D 
 IF C==A => 1=A
 IF A==B => 2=B
 IF B==D => 4=D
 IF D==C => 3=C
 IF of A, B, C, D, 3 or more are identical: 1=2=3=4=P
}}}

Later implementations of this same algorithm (as AdvMAME2× and Scale2×, developed around 2001) have a slightly more efficient but functionally identical implementation:

{{{
  A    --\ 1 2
C P B  --/ 3 4
  D 
 1=P; 2=P; 3=P; 4=P;
 IF C==A AND C!=D AND A!=B => 1=A
 IF A==B AND A!=C AND B!=D => 2=B
 IF B==D AND B!=A AND D!=C => 4=D
 IF D==C AND D!=B AND C!=A => 3=C
}}}

The AdvMAME4×/Scale4× algorithm is just EPX applied twice to get 4× resolution.

===Scale3×/AdvMAME3×===

*The AdvMAME3×/Scale3×* algorithm can be thought of as a generalization of EPX to the 3× case. The corner pixels are calculated identically to EPX.

{{{
A B C --\  1 2 3
D E F    > 4 5 6
G H I --/  7 8 9
 1=E; 2=E; 3=E; 4=E; 5=E; 6=E; 7=E; 8=E; 9=E;
 IF D==B AND D!=H AND B!=F => 1=D
 IF (D==B AND D!=H AND B!=F AND E!=C) OR (B==F AND B!=D AND F!=H AND E!=A) => 2=B
 IF B==F AND B!=D AND F!=H => 3=F
 IF (H==D AND H!=F AND D!=B AND E!=A) OR (D==B AND D!=H AND B!=F AND E!=G) => 4=D
 5=E
 IF (B==F AND B!=D AND F!=H AND E!=I) OR (F==H AND F!=B AND H!=D AND E!=C) => 6=F
 IF H==D AND H!=F AND D!=B => 7=D
 IF (F==H AND F!=B AND H!=D AND E!=G) OR (H==D AND H!=F AND D!=B AND E!=I) => 8=H
 IF F==H AND F!=B AND H!=D => 9=F
}}}

===Eagle===

Eagle works as follows: for every in pixel we will generate 4 out pixels. First, set all 4 to the colour of the in pixel we are currently scaling (as nearest-neighbor). Next look at the pixels up and to the left; if they are the same colour as each other, set the top left pixel to that colour. Continue doing the same for all four pixels, and then move to the next one.

Assume an input matrix of 3×3 pixels where the center most pixel is the pixel to be scaled, and an output matrix of 2×2 pixels (i.e., the scaled pixel)

{{{
first:        |Then 
. . . --\ CC  |S T U  --\ 1 2
. C . --/ CC  |V C W  --/ 3 4
. . .         |X Y Z
              | IF V==S==T => 1=S
              | IF T==U==W => 2=U
              | IF V==X==Y => 3=X
              | IF W==Z==Y => 4=Z
}}}